.TH "fireqos" "1" "Built 10 Jan 2017" "FireQOS Reference" "3.1.1"
.nh
.SH NAME
.PP
fireqos \- an easy to use but powerful traffic shaping tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
fireqos \f[I]CONFIGFILE\f[] [start | debug] [ \-\- conf\-arg ...
]
.PP
fireqos { stop | clear_all_qos }
.PP
fireqos status [\f[I]name\f[] [ dump [\f[I]class\f[]]]]
.PP
fireqos { dump | tcpdump } \f[I]name\f[] \f[I]class\f[] [
\f[I]tcpdump\-arg\f[] ...
]
.PP
fireqos { drops | overlimits | requeues } \f[I]name\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
FireQOS is a program that helps you configure traffic shaping on Linux.
.PP
Run without any arguments, \f[C]fireqos\f[] will present some help on
usage.
.PP
When given \f[I]CONFIGFILE\f[], \f[C]fireqos\f[] will use the named file
instead of \f[C]/etc/firehol/fireqos.conf\f[] as its configuration.
.PP
The parameter \f[I]name\f[] always refers to an interface name from the
configuration file.
The parameter \f[I]class\f[] always refers to a named class within a
named interface.
.PP
It is possible to pass arguments for use by the configuration file
separating any conf\-arg values from the rest of the arguments with
\f[C]\-\-\f[].
The arguments are accessible in the configuration using standard bash(1)
syntax e.g.
$1, $2, etc.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B start; debug
Activates traffic shaping on all interfaces, as given in the
configuration file.
When invoked as \f[C]debug\f[], FireQOS also prints all of the tc(8)
commands it executes.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B stop
Removes all traffic shaping applied by FireQOS (it does not touch QoS on
other interfaces and IFBs used by other tools).
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B clear_all_qos
Removes all traffic shaping on all network interfaces and removes all
IFB devices from the system, even those applied by other tools.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B status
Shows live utilisation for the specified interface.
FireQOS will show you the rate of traffic on all classes, adding one
line per second (similarly to vmstat, iostat, etc.)
.RS
.PP
If \f[C]dump\f[] is specified, it tcpdumps the traffic in the given
class of the interface.
.RE
.TP
.B tcpdump; dump
FireQOS temporarily mirrors the traffic of any leaf class to an IFB
device.
Then it runs tcpdump(8) on this interface to dump the traffic to your
console.
.RS
.PP
You may add any tcpdump(8) parameters you like to the command line, (to
dump the traffic to a file, match a subset of the traffic, etc.), for
example this:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
fireqos\ tcpdump\ adsl\-in\ voip\ \-n
\f[]
.fi
.PP
will start a tcpdump of all traffic on interface adsl\-in, in class
voip.
The parameter \f[C]\-n\f[] is a tcpdump(8) parameter.
.RS
.PP
\f[B]Note\f[]
.PP
When FireQOS is running in \f[C]tcpdump\f[] mode, it locks itself and
will refuse to run in parallel with another FireQOS altering the QoS, or
tcpdumping other traffic.
This is because FireQOS reserves device ifb0 for monitoring.
If two FireQOS processes were allowed to \f[C]tcpdump\f[] in parallel,
your dumps would be wrong.
So it locks itself to prevent such a case.
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B drops
Shows packets dropped per second, per class, for the specified
interface.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B overlimits
Shows packets delayed per second, per class, for the specified
interface.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B requeues
Shows packets requeued per second, per class, for the specified
interface.
.RS
.RE
.SH FILES
.PP
\f[C]/etc/firehol/fireqos.conf\f[]
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
fireqos.conf(5) \- FireQOS configuration file
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Website (http://firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireQOS Online PDF Manual (http://firehol.org/fireqos-manual.pdf)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireQOS Online Documentation (http://firehol.org/documentation/)
.IP \[bu] 2
tc(8) (http://lartc.org/manpages/tc.html) \- show / manipulate traffic
control settings
.IP \[bu] 2
tcpdump(8) (http://www.tcpdump.org/manpages/tcpdump.1.html) \- show /
manipulate traffic control settings
.SH AUTHORS
FireHOL Team.
