.TH "fireqos\-class" "5" "Built 10 Jan 2016" "FireQOS Reference" "3.0.1"
.nh
.SH NAME
.PP
fireqos\-class \- traffic class definition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
{class|class4|class6|class46} [group] \f[I]name\f[]
[\f[I]optional\-class\-params\f[]]
.PP
{class|class4|class6|class46} group end
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
There is also an optional \f[C]match\f[] parameter called
\f[C]class\f[]; see fireqos\-params\-match(5).
.PP
Writing \f[C]class\f[] inherits the IPv4/IPv6 version from its enclosing
interface (see fireqos\-interface(5)).
.PP
Writing \f[C]class4\f[] includes only IPv4 traffic in the class.
.PP
Writing \f[C]class6\f[] includes only IPv6 traffic in the class.
.PP
Writing \f[C]class46\f[] includes both IPv4 and IPv6 traffic in the
class.
.PP
The actual traffic to be matched by a class is defined by adding
matches.
See fireqos\-match(5).
.PP
The sequence that classes appear in the configuration defines their
priority.
The first class is the most important one.
Unless otherwise limited it will get all available bandwidth if it needs
to.
.PP
The second class is less important than the first, the third is even
less important than the second, etc.
The idea is very simple: just put the classes in the order of importance
to you.
.PP
Classes can have their priority assigned explicitly with the
\f[C]prio\f[] parameter.
See fireqos\-params\-class(5).
.RS
.PP
\f[B]Note\f[]
.PP
The underlying Linux qdisc used by FireQOS, HTB, supports only 8
priorities, from 0 to 7.
If you use more than 8 priorities, all after the 8th will get the same
priority (\f[C]prio\f[] 7).
.RE
.PP
All classes in FireQOS share the \f[C]interface\f[] bandwidth.
However, every class has a \f[I]committed\f[] rate (the minimum
guaranteed speed it will get if it needs to) and a \f[I]ceiling\f[] (the
maximum rate this class can reach, provided there is capacity available
and even if there is spare).
.PP
Classes may be nested to any level by using the \f[C]class\ group\f[]
syntax.
.PP
By default FireQOS creates nested classes as \f[I]classes directly
attached to their parent class\f[].
This way, nesting does not add any delays.
.PP
FireQOS can also \f[I]emulate new hardware\f[] at the
\f[C]group\ class\f[] level.
This may be needed, when for example you have an ADSL router that you
connect to via Ethernet: you want the LAN traffic to be at Ethernet
speed, but WAN traffic at ADSL speed with proper ADSL overheads
calculation.
.PP
To accomplish hardware emulation nesting, you add a \f[C]linklayer\f[]
definition (\f[C]ethernet\f[], \f[C]adsl\f[], \f[C]atm\f[], etc.), or
just an \f[C]mtu\f[] to the \f[C]group\ class\f[].
FireQOS will create a qdisc within the class, where the linklayer
parameters will be assigned and the child classes will be attached to
this qdisc.
This adds some delay to the packets of the child classes, but allows you
to emulate new hardware.
For linklayer options, see
fireqos\-params\-class(5).
.PP
There is special class, called \f[C]default\f[].
Default classes can be given explicitly in the configuration file.
If they are not found in the config, FireQOS will append one at the end
of each \f[C]interface\f[] or \f[C]class\ group\f[].
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B \f[C]group\f[]
It is possible to nest classes by using a group.
Grouped classes must be closed with the \f[C]class\ group\ end\f[]
command.
Class groups can be nested.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]name\f[]
This is a single\-word name for this class and is used for displaying
status information.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]optional\-class\-params\f[]
The set of optional class parameters to apply to this class.
.RS
.PP
The following optional class parameters are inherited from the
\f[C]interface\f[] the class is in:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]ceil\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]burst\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]cburst\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]quantum\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]qdisc\f[]
.PP
If you define one of these at the interface level, then all classes
within the interface will get the value by default.
These values can be overwritten by defining the parameter on the class
too.
The same inheritance works on class groups.
.PP
Optional class parameters not in the above list are \f[I]not\f[]
inherited from interfaces.
.PP
FireQOS will by default \f[C]commit\f[] 1/100th of the parent bandwidth
to each class.
This can be overwritten per class by adding a \f[C]commit\f[] to the
class, or adding a \f[C]minrate\f[] at the parent.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To create a nested class, called servers, containing http and smtp:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
interface\ eth0\ lan\ input\ rate\ 1Gbit
\ \ class\ voip\ commit\ 1Mbit
\ \ \ \ match\ udp\ ports\ 5060,10000:10100

\ \ class\ group\ servers\ commit\ 50%\ \ #\ define\ the\ parent\ class
\ \ \ \ match\ tcp\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ apply\ to\ all\ child\ classes

\ \ \ \ class\ mail\ commit\ 50%\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ 50%\ of\ parent\ (\[aq]servers\[aq])
\ \ \ \ \ \ match\ port\ 25\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ matches\ within\ parent\ (\[aq]servers\[aq])

\ \ \ \ class\ web\ commit\ 50%
\ \ \ \ \ \ match\ port\ 80
\ \ class\ group\ end\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ end\ the\ group\ \[aq]servers\[aq]

\ \ class\ streaming\ commit\ 30%
\f[]
.fi
.PP
To create a nested class which emulates an ADSL modem:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]

interface\ eth0\ lan\ output\ rate\ 1Gbit\ ethernet
\ \ class\ lan
\ \ \ \ match\ dst\ 192.168.0.0/24\ #\ LAN\ traffic

\ \ class\ group\ adsl\ rate\ 10Mbit\ ceil\ 10Mbit\ adsl\ remote\ pppoe\-llc
\ \ \ \ match\ all\ #\ all\ non\-lan\ traffic\ in\ this\ emulated\ hardware\ group

\ \ \ \ class\ voip\ #\ class\ within\ adsl
\ \ \ \ \ \ match\ udp\ port\ 5060

\ \ \ \ class\ web\ #\ class\ within\ adsl
\ \ \ \ \ \ match\ tcp\ port\ 80,443
\ \ class\ group\ end
\f[]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
fireqos\-params\-class(5) \- QOS class
parameters
.IP \[bu] 2
fireqos(1) \- FireQOS program
.IP \[bu] 2
fireqos.conf(5) \- FireQOS configuration file
.IP \[bu] 2
fireqos\-interface(5) \- QOS interface definition
.IP \[bu] 2
fireqos\-match(5) \- QOS traffic match
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Website (http://firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireQOS Online PDF Manual (http://firehol.org/fireqos-manual.pdf)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireQOS Online Documentation (http://firehol.org/documentation/)
.SH AUTHORS
FireHOL Team.
