.TH "fireqos\-interface" "5" "Built 10 Jan 2016" "FireQOS Reference" "3.0.1"
.nh
.SH NAME
.PP
fireqos\-interface \- create an interface definition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
{ interface | interface4 } \f[I]device\f[] \f[I]name\f[]
\f[I]direction\f[] [\f[I]optional\-class\-params\f[]] { rate | commit |
min } \f[I]speed\f[]
.PP
interface46 \f[I]\&...\f[]
.PP
interface6 \f[I]\&...\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Writing \f[C]interface\f[] or \f[C]interface4\f[] applies traffic
shaping rules only to IPv4 traffic.
.PP
Writing \f[C]interface6\f[] applies traffic shaping rules only to IPv6
traffic.
.PP
Writing \f[C]interface46\f[] applies traffic shaping rules to both IPv4
and IPv6 traffic.
.PP
The actual traffic shaping behaviour of a class is defined by adding
classes.
See fireqos\-class(5).
.RS
.PP
\f[B]Note\f[]
.PP
To achieve best results with \f[C]incoming\f[] traffic shaping, you
should not use 100% of the available bandwidth at the interface level.
.PP
If you use all there is, at 100% utilisation of the link, the neighbour
routers will start queuing packets.
This will destroy prioritisation.
Try 85% or 90% instead.
.RE
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B \f[I]device\f[]
This is the interface name as shown by \f[C]ip\ link\ show\f[] (e.g.
eth0, ppp1, etc.)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]name\f[]
This is a single\-word name for this interface and is used for
retrieving status information later.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]direction\f[]
If set to \f[C]input\f[], traffic coming in to the interface is shaped.
.RS
.PP
If set to \f[C]output\f[], traffic going out via the interface is
shaped.
.PP
if set to \f[C]bidirectional\f[] traffic for both input and output can
be shaped.
If you need to differentiate input and output parameters per statements
within the interface, you can prefix them with \f[C]input\f[] or
\f[C]output\f[] like this:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
interface\ eth0\ lan\ bidirectional\ ...
\ \ \ \ class\ voip\ input\ commit\ 1Mbit\ output\ commit\ 2Mbit\ ...
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]optional\-class\-params\f[]
For a list of optional class parameters which can be applied to an
interface, see fireqos\-params\-class(5).
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]speed\f[]
For an interface, the committed \f[I]speed\f[] must be specified with
the \f[C]rate\f[] option.
The speed can be expressed in any of the units described in
fireqos.conf(5).
.RS
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To create an input policy on eth0, capable of delivering up to 1Gbit of
traffic:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
interface\ eth0\ lan\-in\ input\ rate\ 1Gbit
\f[]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
fireqos.conf(5) \- FireQOS configuration file
.IP \[bu] 2
fireqos\-class(5) \- QOS class definition
.IP \[bu] 2
fireqos\-params\-class(5) \- QOS class
parameters
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Website (http://firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireQOS Online PDF Manual (http://firehol.org/fireqos-manual.pdf)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireQOS Online Documentation (http://firehol.org/documentation/)
.SH AUTHORS
FireHOL Team.
