.TH "firehol.conf" "5" "Built 10 Jan 2017" "FireHOL Reference" "3.1.1"
.nh
.SH NAME
.PP
firehol.conf \- FireHOL configuration
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[C]/etc/firehol/firehol.conf\f[] is the default configuration file for
firehol(1).
It defines the stateful firewall that will be produced.
.PP
A configuration file starts with an optional version indicator which
looks like this:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
version\ 6
\f[]
.fi
.PP
See firehol\-version(1) for full details.
.PP
A configuration file contains one or more \f[C]interface\f[]
definitions, which look like this:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
\ interface\ eth0\ lan
\ \ \ client\ all\ accept\ #\ This\ host\ can\ access\ any\ remote\ service
\ \ \ server\ ssh\ accept\ #\ Remote\ hosts\ can\ access\ SSH\ on\ local\ server
\ \ \ #\ ...
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The above definition has name "lan" and specifies a network interface
(eth0).
A definition may contain zero or more subcommands.
See firehol\-interface(5) for full details.
.PP
By default FireHOL will try to create both IPv4 and IPv6 rules for each
interface.
To make this explicit or restrict which rules are created write
\f[C]both\ interface\f[], \f[C]ipv4\ interface\f[] or
\f[C]ipv6\ interface\f[].
.PP
Note that IPv6 will be disabled silently if your system is not
configured to use it.
You can test this by looking for the file \f[C]/proc/net/if_inet6\f[].
The IPv6
HOWTO (http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/Linux+IPv6-HOWTO/systemcheck-kernel.html)
has more information.
.PP
A configuration file contains zero or more \f[C]router\f[] definitions,
which look like this:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
DMZ_IF=eth0
WAN_IF=eth1
router\ wan2dmz\ inface\ ${WAN_IF}\ outface\ ${DMZ_IF}
\ \ route\ http\ accept\ \ #\ Hosts\ on\ WAN\ may\ access\ HTTP\ on\ hosts\ in\ DMZ
\ \ server\ ssh\ accept\ \ #\ Hosts\ on\ WAN\ may\ access\ SSH\ on\ hosts\ in\ DMZ
\ \ client\ pop3\ accept\ #\ Hosts\ in\ DMZ\ may\ access\ POP3\ on\ hosts\ on\ WAN
\ \ #\ ...
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The above definition has name "wan2dmz" and specifies incoming and
outgoing network interfaces (eth1 and eth0) using variables.
A definition may contain zero or more subcommands.
Note that a router is not required to specify network interfaces to
operate on.
See firehol\-router(5) for full details.
.PP
By default FireHOL will try to create both IPv4 and IPv6 rules for each
router.
To make this explicit or restrict which rules are created write
\f[C]both\ router\f[], \f[C]ipv4\ router\f[] or \f[C]ipv6\ router\f[].
.PP
It is simple to add extra service definitions which can then be used in
the same way as those provided as standard.
See ADDING SERVICES.
.PP
The configuration file is parsed as a bash(1) script, allowing you to
set up and use variables, flow control and external commands.
.PP
Special control variables may be set up and used outside of any
definition, see firehol\-defaults.conf(5) as
can the functions in CONFIGURATION HELPER
COMMANDS and HELPER
COMMANDS.
.SH VARIABLES AVAILABLE
.PP
The following variables are made available in the FireHOL configuration
file and can be accessed as ${\f[I]VARIABLE\f[]}.
.TP
.B UNROUTABLE_IPS
This variable includes the IPs from both PRIVATE_IPS and RESERVED_IPS.
It is useful to restrict traffic on interfaces and routers accepting
Internet traffic, for example:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
interface\ eth0\ internet\ src\ not\ "${UNROUTABLE_IPS}"
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B PRIVATE_IPS
This variable includes all the IP addresses defined as Private or Test
by RFC 3330 (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3330).
.RS
.PP
You can override the default values by creating a file called
\f[C]/etc/firehol/PRIVATE_IPS\f[].
.RE
.TP
.B RESERVED_IPS
This variable includes all the IP addresses defined by
IANA (http://www.iana.org/) as reserved.
.RS
.PP
You can override the default values by creating a file called
\f[C]/etc/firehol/RESERVED_IPS\f[].
.PP
Now that IPv4 address space has all been allocated there is very little
reason that this value will need to change in future.
.RE
.TP
.B MULTICAST_IPS
This variable includes all the IP addresses defined as Multicast by RFC
3330 (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3330).
.RS
.PP
You can override the default values by creating a file called
\f[C]/etc/firehol/MULTICAST_IPS\f[].
.RE
.SH ADDING SERVICES
.PP
To define new services you add the appropriate lines before using them
later in the configuration file.
.PP
The following are required:
.RS
.PP
server_\f[I]myservice\f[]_ports="\f[I]proto\f[]/\f[I]sports\f[]"
.RE
.RS
.PP
client_\f[I]myservice\f[]_ports="\f[I]cports\f[]"
.RE
.PP
\f[I]proto\f[] is anything iptables(8) accepts e.g.
"tcp", "udp", "icmp", including numeric protocol values.
.PP
\f[I]sports\f[] is the ports the server is listening at.
It is a space\-separated list of port numbers, names and ranges
(from:to).
The keyword \f[C]any\f[] will match any server port.
.PP
\f[I]cports\f[] is the ports the client may use to initiate a
connection.
It is a space\-separated list of port numbers, names and ranges
(from:to).
The keyword \f[C]any\f[] will match any client port.
The keyword \f[C]default\f[] will match default client ports.
For the local machine (e.g.
a \f[C]client\f[] within an \f[C]interface\f[]) it resolves to sysctl(8)
variable net.ipv4.ip_local_port_range (or
\f[C]/proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_local_port_range\f[]).
For a remote machine (e.g.
a client within an interface or anything in a router) it resolves to the
variable DEFAULT_CLIENT_PORTS (see
firehol\-defaults.conf(5)).
.PP
The following are optional:
.RS
.PP
require_\f[I]myservice\f[]_modules="\f[I]modules\f[]"
.RE
.RS
.PP
require_\f[I]myservice\f[]_nat_modules="\f[I]nat\-modules\f[]"
.RE
.PP
The named kernel modules will be loaded when the definition is used.
The NAT modules will only be loaded if FIREHOL_NAT is non\-zero (see
firehol\-defaults.conf(5)).
.PP
For example, for a service named \f[C]daftnet\f[] that listens at two
ports, port 1234 TCP and 1234 UDP where the expected client ports are
the default random ports a system may choose, plus the same port numbers
the server listens at, with further dynamic ports requiring kernel
modules to be loaded:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
\ \ \ \ #\ Setup\ service
\ \ \ \ server_daftnet_ports="tcp/1234\ udp/1234"
\ \ \ \ client_daftnet_ports="default\ 1234"
\ \ \ \ require_daftnet_modules="ip_conntrack_daftnet"
\ \ \ \ require_daftnet_nat_modules="ip_nat_daftnet
\ \ \ \ 
\ \ \ \ interface\ eth0\ lan0
\ \ \ \ \ \ server\ daftnet\ accept
\ \ \ \ \ 
\ \ \ \ interface\ eth1\ lan1
\ \ \ \ \ \ client\ daftnet\ reject
\ \ \ \ 
\ \ \ \ router\ lan2lan\ inface\ eth0\ outface\ eth1
\ \ \ \ \ \ route\ daftnet\ accept
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Where multiple ports are provides (as per the example), FireHOL simply
determines all of the combinations of client and server ports and
generates multiple iptables(8) statements to match them.
.PP
To create more complex rules, or stateless rules, you will need to
create a bash function prefixed \f[C]rules_\f[] e.g.
\f[C]rules_myservice\f[].
The best reference is the many such functions in the main firehol(1)
script.
.PP
When adding a service which uses modules, or via a custom function, you
may also wish to include the following:
.RS
.PP
ALL_SHOULD_ALSO_RUN="${ALL_SHOULD_ALSO_RUN} \f[I]myservice\f[]"
.RE
.PP
which will ensure your service is set\-up correctly as part of the
\f[C]all\f[] service.
.RS
.PP
\f[B]Note\f[]
.PP
To allow definitions to be shared you can instead create files and
install them in the \f[C]/etc/firehol/services\f[] directory with a
\f[C]\&.conf\f[] extension.
.PP
The first line must read:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#FHVER:\ 1:213
\f[]
.fi
.PP
1 is the service definition API version.
It will be changed if the API is ever modified.
The 213 originally referred to a FireHOL 1.x minor version but is no
longer checked.
.PP
FireHOL will refuse to run if the API version does not match the
expected one.
.RE
.SH DEFINITIONS
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-interface(5) \- interface definition
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-router(5) \- router definition
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-policy(5) \- policy command
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-protection(5) \- protection command
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-server(5) \- server, route commands
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-client(5) \- client command
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-group(5) \- group command
.SH HELPER COMMANDS
.PP
These helpers can be used in \f[C]interface\f[] and \f[C]router\f[]
definitions as well as before them:
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-iptables(5) \- iptables helper
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-masquerade(5) \- masquerade helper
.PP
This helper can be used in \f[C]router\f[] definitions as well as before
any \f[C]router\f[] or \f[C]interface\f[]:
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-tcpmss(5) \- tcpmss helper
.SH CONFIGURATION HELPER COMMANDS
.PP
These helpers should only be used outside of \f[C]interface\f[] and
\f[C]router\f[] definitions (i.e.
before the first interface is defined).
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-version(5) \- version config helper
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-action(5) \- action config helper
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-blacklist(5) \- blacklist config helper
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-classify(5) \- classify config helper
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-connmark(5) \- connmark config helper
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-dscp(5) \- dscp config helper
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-mac(5) \- mac config helper
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-mark(5) \- mark config helper
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-nat(5) \- nat, snat, dnat, redirect helpers
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-proxy(5) \- transparent proxy/squid helpers
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-tos(5) \- tos config helper
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-tosfix(5) \- tosfix config helper
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol(1) \- FireHOL program
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-defaults.conf(5) \- control variables
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-services(5) \- services list
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-actions(5) \- actions for rules
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Website (http://firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online PDF Manual (http://firehol.org/firehol-manual.pdf)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online Documentation (http://firehol.org/documentation/)
.SH AUTHORS
FireHOL Team.
