.TH "firehol\-dscp" "5" "Built 10 Jan 2016" "FireHOL Reference" "3.0.1"
.nh
.SH NAME
.PP
firehol\-dscp \- set the DSCP field in the packet header
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
dscp { \f[I]value\f[] | class \f[I]classid\f[] } \f[I]chain\f[]
\f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f[C]dscp\f[] helper command sets the DSCP field in the header of
packets traffic, to allow QoS shaping.
.RS
.PP
\f[B]Note\f[]
.PP
There is also a \f[C]dscp\f[] parameter which allows matching DSCP
values within individual rules (see firehol\-params(5)).
.RE
.PP
Set \f[I]value\f[] to a decimal or hexadecimal (0xnn) number to set an
explicit DSCP value or use \f[C]class\f[] \f[I]classid\f[] to use an
iptables(8) DiffServ class, such as EF, BE, CSxx or AFxx (see
\f[C]iptables\ \-j\ DSCP\ \-\-help\f[] for more information).
.PP
The \f[I]chain\f[] will be used to find traffic to mark.
It can be any of the iptables(8) built in chains belonging to the
\f[C]mangle\f[] table.
The chain names are: INPUT, FORWARD, OUTPUT, PREROUTING and POSTROUTING.
The names are case\-sensitive.
.PP
The \f[I]rule\-params\f[] define a set of rule parameters to match the
traffic that is to be marked within the chosen chain.
See firehol\-params(5) for more details.
.PP
Any \f[C]dscp\f[] commands will affect all traffic matched.
They must be declared before the first router or interface.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
\f[C]

\ #\ set\ DSCP\ field\ to\ 32,\ packets\ sent\ by\ the\ local\ machine
\ dscp\ 32\ OUTPUT

\ #\ set\ DSCP\ field\ to\ 32\ (hex\ 20),\ packets\ routed\ by\ the\ local\ machine
\ dscp\ 0x20\ FORWARD

\ #\ set\ DSCP\ to\ DiffServ\ class\ EF,\ packets\ routed\ by\ the\ local\ machine
\ #\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ and\ destined\ for\ port\ TCP/25\ of\ 198.51.100.1
\ dscp\ class\ EF\ FORWARD\ proto\ tcp\ dport\ 25\ dst\ 198.51.100.1
\f[]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol(1) \- FireHOL program
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol.conf(5) \- FireHOL configuration
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-params(5) \- optional rule parameters
.IP \[bu] 2
iptables(8) (http://ipset.netfilter.org/iptables.man.html) \-
administration tool for IPv4 firewalls
.IP \[bu] 2
ip6tables(8) (http://ipset.netfilter.org/ip6tables.man.html) \-
administration tool for IPv6 firewalls
.IP \[bu] 2
ip(8) \- show / manipulate routing, devices, policy routing and tunnels
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Website (http://firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online PDF Manual (http://firehol.org/firehol-manual.pdf)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online Documentation (http://firehol.org/documentation/)
.IP \[bu] 2
Linux Advanced Routing & Traffic Control HOWTO (http://lartc.org/howto/)
.SH AUTHORS
FireHOL Team.
