.TH "firehol\-masquerade" "5" "Built 10 Jan 2016" "FireHOL Reference" "3.0.1"
.nh
.SH NAME
.PP
firehol\-masquerade \- set up masquerading (NAT) on an interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
masquerade \f[I]real\-interface\f[] \f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.PP
masquerade [reverse] \f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f[C]masquerade\f[] helper command sets up masquerading on the
output of a real network interface (as opposed to a FireHOL
\f[C]interface\f[] definition).
.PP
If a \f[I]real\-interface\f[] is specified the command should be used
before any \f[C]interface\f[] or \f[C]router\f[] definitions.
Multiple values can be given separated by whitespace, so long as they
are enclosed in quotes.
.PP
If used within an \f[C]interface\f[] definition the definition\[aq]s
\f[I]real\-interface\f[] will be used.
.PP
If used within a router definition the definition\[aq]s
\f[C]outface\f[](s) will be used, if specified.
If the \f[C]reverse\f[] option is given, then the definition\[aq]s
\f[C]inface\f[](s) will be used, if specified.
.PP
Unlike most commands, \f[C]masquerade\f[] does not inherit its parent
definition\[aq]s \f[I]rule\-params\f[], it only honours its own.
The \f[C]inface\f[] and \f[C]outface\f[] parameters should not be used
(iptables(8) does not support inface in the POSTROUTING chain and
outface will be overwritten by FireHOL using the rules above).
.RS
.PP
\f[B]Note\f[]
.PP
The masquerade always applies to the output of the chosen network
interfaces.
.PP
FIREHOL_NAT will be turned on automatically (see
firehol\-variables(5) ) and FireHOL will enable
packet\-forwarding in the kernel.
.RE
.SH MASQUERADING AND SNAT
.PP
Masquerading is a special form of Source NAT (SNAT) that changes the
source of requests when they go out and replaces their original source
when they come in.
This way a Linux host can become an Internet router for a LAN of clients
having unroutable IP addresses.
Masquerading takes care to re\-map IP addresses and ports as required.
.PP
Masquerading is expensive compare to SNAT because it checks the IP
address of the outgoing interface every time for every packet.
If your host has a static IP address you should generally prefer SNAT.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
\f[C]

\ #\ Before\ any\ interface\ or\ router
\ masquerade\ eth0\ src\ 192.0.2.0/24\ dst\ not\ 192.0.2.0/24

\ #\ In\ an\ interface\ definition\ to\ masquerade\ the\ output\ of\ its\ real\-interface
\ masquerade

\ #\ In\ a\ router\ definition\ to\ masquerade\ the\ output\ of\ its\ outface
\ masquerade

\ #\ In\ a\ router\ definition\ to\ masquerade\ the\ output\ of\ its\ inface
\ masquerade\ reverse
\f[]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol(1) \- FireHOL program
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol.conf(5) \- FireHOL configuration
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-interface(5) \- interface definition
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-router(5) \- router definition
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-params(5) \- optional rule parameters
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-nat(5) \- nat, snat, dnat, redirect config
helpers
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Website (http://firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online PDF Manual (http://firehol.org/firehol-manual.pdf)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online Documentation (http://firehol.org/documentation/)
.SH AUTHORS
FireHOL Team.
