.TH "firehol\-tos" "5" "Built 10 Jan 2017" "FireHOL Reference" "3.1.1"
.nh
.SH NAME
.PP
firehol\-tos \- set the Type of Service (TOS) of packets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
tos \f[I]value\f[] \f[I]chain\f[] [\f[I]rule\-params\f[]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f[C]tos\f[] helper command sets the Type of Service (TOS) field in
packet headers.
.RS
.PP
\f[B]Note\f[]
.PP
There is also a \f[C]tos\f[] parameter which allows matching TOS values
within individual rules (see firehol\-params(5)).
.RE
.PP
The \f[I]value\f[] can be an integer number (decimal or hexadecimal) or
one of the descriptive values accepted by iptables(8) (run
\f[C]iptables\ \-j\ TOS\ \-\-help\f[] for a list).
.PP
The \f[I]chain\f[] will be used to find traffic to mark.
It can be any of the iptables(8) built in chains belonging to the
\f[C]mangle\f[] table.
The chain names are: INPUT, FORWARD, OUTPUT, PREROUTING and POSTROUTING.
These names are case\-sensitive.
.PP
The \f[I]rule\-params\f[] define a set of rule parameters to match the
traffic that is to be marked within the chosen chain.
See firehol\-params(5) for more details.
.PP
Any \f[C]tos\f[] commands will affect all traffic matched.
They must be declared before the first \f[C]router\f[] or
\f[C]interface\f[].
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
\f[C]

\ #\ set\ TOS\ to\ 16,\ packets\ sent\ by\ the\ local\ machine
\ tos\ 16\ OUTPUT

\ #\ set\ TOS\ to\ 0x10\ (16),\ packets\ routed\ by\ the\ local\ machine
\ tos\ 0x10\ FORWARD

\ #\ set\ TOS\ to\ Maximize\-Throughput\ (8),\ packets\ routed\ by\ the\ local
\ #\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ machine,\ destined\ for\ port\ TCP/25\ of\ 198.51.100.1
\ tos\ Maximize\-Throughput\ FORWARD\ proto\ tcp\ dport\ 25\ dst\ 198.51.100.1
\f[]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol(1) \- FireHOL program
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol.conf(5) \- FireHOL configuration
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-params(5) \- optional rule parameters
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-tosfix(5) \- tosfix config helper
.IP \[bu] 2
iptables(8) (http://ipset.netfilter.org/iptables.man.html) \-
administration tool for IPv4 firewalls
.IP \[bu] 2
ip6tables(8) (http://ipset.netfilter.org/ip6tables.man.html) \-
administration tool for IPv6 firewalls
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Website (http://firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online PDF Manual (http://firehol.org/firehol-manual.pdf)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online Documentation (http://firehol.org/documentation/)
.SH AUTHORS
FireHOL Team.
