.TH "firehol\-server" "5" "Built 10 Jan 2017" "FireHOL Reference" "3.1.1"
.nh
.SH NAME
.PP
firehol\-server \- server, route commands: accept requests to a service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
{ server | server46 } \f[I]service\f[] \f[I]action\f[]
\f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.PP
server4 \f[I]service\f[] \f[I]action\f[] \f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.PP
server6 \f[I]service\f[] \f[I]action\f[] \f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.PP
{ route | route46 } \f[I]service\f[] \f[I]action\f[]
\f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.PP
route4 \f[I]service\f[] \f[I]action\f[] \f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.PP
route6 \f[I]service\f[] \f[I]action\f[] \f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f[C]server\f[] subcommand defines a server of a service on an
\f[C]interface\f[] or \f[C]router\f[].
Any \f[I]rule\-params\f[] given to a parent interface or router are
inherited by the server.
.PP
For FireHOL a server is the destination of a request.
Even though this is more complex for some multi\-socket services, to
FireHOL a server always accepts requests.
.PP
The \f[C]route\f[] subcommand is an alias for \f[C]server\f[] which may
only be used in routers.
.PP
The \f[I]service\f[] parameter is one of the supported service names
from firehol\-services(5).
Multiple services may be specified, space delimited in quotes.
.PP
The \f[I]action\f[] can be any of the actions listed in
firehol\-actions(5).
.PP
The \f[I]rule\-params\f[] define a set of rule parameters to further
restrict the traffic that is matched to this service.
See firehol\-params(5) for more details.
.RS
.PP
\f[B]Note\f[]
.PP
Writing \f[C]server4\f[] is equivalent to writing \f[C]ipv4\ server\f[]
and ensures this subcommand is applied only in the IPv4 firewall rules.
.PP
Writing \f[C]server6\f[] is equivalent to writing \f[C]ipv6\ server\f[]
and ensures this subcommand is applied only in the IPv6 firewall rules.
.PP
Writing \f[C]server46\f[] is equivalent to writing \f[C]both\ server\f[]
and ensures this subcommand is applied in both the IPv4 and IPv6
firewall rules; it cannot be used as part an interface or router that is
IPv4 or IPv6 only.
.PP
The default \f[C]server\f[] inherits its behaviour from the enclosing
interface or router.
.PP
The same rules apply to the variations of \f[C]route\f[].
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
server\ smtp\ accept

server\ "smtp\ pop3"\ accept

server\ smtp\ accept\ src\ 192.0.2.1

server\ smtp\ accept\ log\ "mail\ packet"\ src\ 192.0.2.1
\f[]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol(1) \- FireHOL program
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol.conf(5) \- FireHOL configuration
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-modifiers(5) \- ipv4/ipv6 selection
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-services(5) \- services list
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-actions(5) \- actions for rules
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-params(5) \- optional rule parameters
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-client(5) \- client subcommand
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-interface(5) \- interface definition
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-router(5) \- router definition
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Website (http://firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online PDF Manual (http://firehol.org/firehol-manual.pdf)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online Documentation (http://firehol.org/documentation/)
.SH AUTHORS
FireHOL Team.
