.TH "firehol\-iptrap" "5" "Built 10 Jan 2016" "FireHOL Reference" "3.0.1"
.nh
.SH NAME
.PP
firehol\-iptrap \- dynamically put IP addresses in an ipset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
{ iptrap | iptrap4 | iptrap6 } \f[I]ipset\f[] \f[I]type\f[]
\f[I]seconds\f[] [ timeout | counters ] [ method \f[B]method\f[] ]
[\f[I]rule\-params\f[]] [ except [\f[I]rule\-params\f[]] ]...
.PP
{ ipuntrap | ipuntrap4 | ipuntrap6 } \f[I]ipset\f[] \f[I]type\f[] [
timeout | counters ] [ method \f[B]method\f[] ] [\f[I]rule\-params\f[]]
[ except [\f[I]rule\-params\f[]] ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[C]iptrap\f[] adds the IP addresses of the matching packets to
\f[C]ipset\f[].
.PP
\f[C]ipuntrap\f[] deletes the IP addresses of the matching packets from
\f[C]ipset\f[].
.PP
Both helpers do not affect the flow of traffic.
They do not \f[C]ACCEPT\f[], \f[C]REJECT\f[], \f[C]DROP\f[] packets or
affect the firewall in any way.
.PP
\f[C]ipset\f[] is the name of the ipset to use.
.PP
\f[C]type\f[] selects which of the IP addresses of the matching packets
will be used (added or removed from the ipset).
\f[C]type\f[] can be \f[C]src\f[], \f[C]dst\f[], \f[C]src,dst\f[],
\f[C]dst,src\f[], etc.
If type is a pair, then the ipset must be an ipset of pairs too.
.PP
\f[C]seconds\f[] is required by \f[C]iptrap\f[] and gives the duration
in seconds of the lifetime of each IP address that is added to
\f[C]ipset\f[].
Every matching packet will refresh this duration for the IP address in
the ipset.
The Linux kernel will automatically remove the IP from the ipset when
this time expires.
The user may monitor the remaining time for each IP, by running
\f[C]ipset\ list\ NAME\f[] (where \f[C]NAME\f[] is the \f[C]ipset\f[]
parameter given in the \f[C]iptrap\f[] command).
.PP
The seconds value \f[C]default\f[] will not set any seconds.
The ipset default will be used.
.PP
A seconds of \f[C]0\f[] (zero), writes to the ipset permanently (this is
a feature of the ipset command, not the ipset FireHOL helper).
.PP
The keywords \f[C]timeout\f[] and \f[C]counters\f[] are mutually
exclusive.
\f[C]timeout\f[] is the default and means that each IP address every
time is matched its timeout will be refreshed, while \f[C]counters\f[]
means that its packets and bytes counters will be refreshed.
Unfortunately the kernel either re\-add the IP in the ipset with the new
timeout \- but its counters will be lost, or just the counters will be
updated, but the timeout will not be refreshed.
.PP
\f[C]method\f[] is defines the storage method of the underlying ipset.
It accepts all the types the ipset commands accepts.
.PP
\f[C]method\f[] and \f[C]type\f[] should match.
For example if method is \f[C]hash:ip\f[] then method should be either
\f[C]src\f[] or \f[C]dst\f[].
If method is \f[C]hash:ip,ip\f[] then method should be either
\f[C]src,dst\f[] or \f[C]dst,src\f[].
If method is \f[C]hash:ip,port,ip\f[] method should be
\f[C]src,src,dst\f[] or \f[C]src,dst,dst\f[] or \f[C]dst,src,src\f[] or
\f[C]dst,dst,src\f[].
For more information check the manual page of the ipset command.
.PP
The \f[I]rule\-params\f[] define a set of rule parameters to restrict
the traffic that is matched to this helper.
See firehol\-params(5) for more details.
.PP
\f[C]except\f[] \f[I]rule\-params\f[] are used to exclude traffic, i.e.
traffic that normally is matched by the first set of
\f[I]rule\-params\f[], will be excluded if matched by the second.
.PP
\f[C]iptrap\f[] and \f[C]ipuntrap\f[] are hooked on PREROUTING so it is
only useful for incoming traffic.
.PP
\f[C]iptrap\f[] and \f[C]ipuntrap\f[] cannot setup both IPv4 and IPv6
traps with one call.
The reason is that the \f[C]ipset\f[] can either be IPv4 or IPv6.
.PP
Both helpers will create the \f[C]ipset\f[] specified, if that ipset is
not already created by other statements.
When the ipset is created by the \f[C]iptrap\f[] helper, the ipset will
not be reset (emptied) when the firewall is restarted.
.PP
The ipset options used when these helpers create ipsets can be
controlled with the variable IPTRAP_DEFAULT_IPSET_OPTIONS.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
\ #\ Example:\ mini\-IDS
\ #\ add\ to\ the\ ipset\ `trap`\ for\ an\ hour\ (3600\ seconds)\ all\ IPs\ from\ all\ packets
\ #\ coming\ from\ eth0\ and\ going\ to\ tcp/3306\ (mysql).
\ iptrap4\ src\ trap\ 3600\ inface\ eth0\ proto\ tcp\ dport\ 3306\ log\ "TRAPPED\ HTTP"
\ #\ block\ them
\ blacklist4\ full\ inface\ eth0\ log\ "BLOCKED"\ src\ ipset:trap\ except\ src\ ipset:whitelist

\ #\ Example:\ ipuntrap
\ ipuntrap4\ src\ trap\ inface\ eth0\ src\ ipset:trap\ proto\ tcp\ dport\ 80\ log\ "UNTRAPPED\ HTTP"

\ #\ Example:\ a\ knock
\ #\ The\ user\ will\ be\ able\ to\ knock\ at\ tcp/12345
\ iptrap4\ src\ knock1\ 30\ inface\ eth0\ proto\ tcp\ dport\ 12345\ log\ "KNOCK\ STEP\ 1"
\ #\ in\ 30\ seconds\ knock\ at\ tcp/23456
\ iptrap4\ src\ knock2\ 60\ inface\ eth0\ proto\ tcp\ dport\ 23456\ src\ ipset:knock1\ log\ "KNOCK\ STEP\ 2"
\ #\ in\ 60\ seconds\ knock\ at\ tcp/34566
\ iptrap4\ src\ knock3\ 90\ inface\ eth0\ proto\ tcp\ dport\ 34567\ src\ ipset:knock2\ log\ "KNOCK\ STEP\ 3"
\ #
\ #\ and\ in\ 90\ seconds\ ssh
\ interface\ ...
\ \ \ \ \ server\ ssh\ accept\ src\ ipset:knock3
\f[]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol(1) \- FireHOL program
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol.conf(5) \- FireHOL configuration
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Website (http://firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online PDF Manual (http://firehol.org/firehol-manual.pdf)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online Documentation (http://firehol.org/documentation/)
.SH AUTHORS
FireHOL Team.
