.TH "firehol\-ipset" "5" "Built 10 Jan 2016" "FireHOL Reference" "3.0.1"
.nh
.SH NAME
.PP
firehol\-ipset \- configure ipsets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
ipset \f[I]command\f[] \f[I]name\f[] \f[I]options\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
FireHOL has an \f[C]ipset\f[] helper.
It is a wrapper around the real \f[C]ipset\f[] command and is handled
internally within FireHOL in such a way so that the ipset collections
defined in the configuration will be activated before activating the
firewall.
.PP
FireHOL is also smart enough to restore the ipsets after a reboot,
before it restores the firewall, so that everything will work as
seamlessly as possible.
.PP
The \f[C]ipset\f[] helper has the same syntax with the real
\f[C]ipset\f[] command.
So in FireHOL you just add the \f[C]ipset\f[] statements you need, and
FireHOL will do the rest.
.PP
Keep in mind that each \f[C]ipset\f[] collection is either IPv4 or IPv6.
In FireHOL prefix \f[C]ipset\f[] with either \f[C]ipv4\f[] or
\f[C]ipv6\f[] and FireHOL will choose the right IP version (there is
also \f[C]ipset4\f[] and \f[C]ipset6\f[]).
.PP
Also, do not add \f[C]\-!\f[] to ipset statements given in
\f[C]firehol.conf\f[].
FireHOL will batch import all ipsets and this option is not needed.
.SH FireHOL ipset extensions
.PP
The features below are extensions of \f[C]ipset\f[] that can only be
used from within \f[C]firehol.conf\f[].
They will not work on a terminal.
.PP
The FireHOL helper allows mass import of ipset collections from files.
This is done with \f[C]ipset\ addfile\f[] command.
.PP
The \f[C]ipset\ addfile\f[] command will get a filename, remove all
comments (anything after a \f[C]#\f[] on the same line), trim any empty
lines and spaces, and add all the remaining lines to \f[C]ipset\f[], as
if each line of the file was run with
\f[C]ipset\ add\ COLLECTION_NAME\ IP_FROM_FILE\ [other\ options]\f[].
.PP
The syntax of the \f[C]ipset\ addfile\f[] command is:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
\ ipset\ addfile\ *name*\ [ip|net]\ *filename*\ [*other\ ipset\ add\ options*]
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[C]name\f[] is the collection to add the IPs.
.PP
\f[C]ip\f[] is optional and will select all the lines of the file that
do not contain a \f[C]/\f[].
.PP
\f[C]net\f[] is optional and will select all the lines of the file that
contain a \f[C]/\f[].
.PP
\f[C]filename\f[] is the filename to read.
You can give absolute filenames and relative filenames (to
\f[C]/etc/firehol\f[]).
.PP
\f[C]other\ ipset\ add\ options\f[] is whatever else \f[C]ipset\ add\f[]
supports, that you are willing to give for each line.
.PP
The \f[C]ipset\ add\f[] command implemented in FireHOL also allows you
to give multiple IPs separated by comma or enclosed in quotes and
separated by space.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
\ ipv4\ ipset\ create\ badguys\ hash:ip
\ ipv4\ ipset\ add\ badguys\ 1.2.3.4
\ ipv4\ ipset\ addfile\ badguys\ file\-with\-the\-bad\-guys\-ips.txt
\ ...
\ ipv4\ blacklist\ full\ ipset:badguys

\ #\ example\ with\ multiple\ IPs
\ ipv4\ ipset\ create\ badguys\ hash:ip
\ ipv4\ ipset\ add\ badguys\ 1.2.3.4,5.6.7.8,9.10.11.12\ #\ <<\ comma\ separated
\ ipv4\ ipset\ add\ badguys\ "11.22.33.44\ 55.66.77.88"\ \ #\ <<\ space\ separated\ in\ quotes
\f[]
.fi
.PP
ipsets with IP Lists for abuse, malware, attacks, proxies, anonymizers,
etc can be downloaded with the contrib/update\-ipsets.sh script.
Information about the supported ipsets can be found at FireHOL IP
Lists (http://iplists.firehol.org/)
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol(1) \- FireHOL program
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol.conf(5) \- FireHOL configuration
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-interface(5) \- interface definition
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-router(5) \- router definition
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-params(5) \- optional rule parameters
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-masquerade(5) \- masquerade helper
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Website (http://firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online PDF Manual (http://firehol.org/firehol-manual.pdf)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online Documentation (http://firehol.org/documentation/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL IP Lists (http://iplists.firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
NAT
HOWTO (http://www.netfilter.org/documentation/HOWTO/NAT-HOWTO-6.html)
.IP \[bu] 2
netfilter flow
diagram (http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/37/Netfilter-packet-flow.svg)
.SH AUTHORS
FireHOL Team.
