.TH "firehol\-router" "5" "Built 10 Jan 2016" "FireHOL Reference" "3.0.1"
.nh
.SH NAME
.PP
firehol\-router \- create a router definition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
{ router | router46 } \f[I]name\f[] \f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.PP
router4 \f[I]name\f[] \f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.PP
router6 \f[I]name\f[] \f[I]rule\-params\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A \f[C]router\f[] definition consists of a set of rules for traffic
passing through the host running the firewall.
.PP
The default policy for router definitions is RETURN, meaning packets are
not dropped by any particular router.
Packets not matched by any router are dropped at the end of the
firewall.
.PP
The behaviour of the defined router is controlled by adding subcommands
from those listed in ROUTER SUBCOMMANDS.
.RS
.PP
\f[B]Note\f[]
.PP
Writing \f[C]router4\f[] is equivalent to writing \f[C]ipv4\ router\f[]
and ensures the defined router is created only in the IPv4 firewall
along with any rules within it.
.PP
Writing \f[C]router6\f[] is equivalent to writing \f[C]ipv6\ router\f[]
and ensures the defined router is created only in the IPv6 firewall
along with any rules within it.
.PP
Writing \f[C]router46\f[] is equivalent to writing \f[C]both\ router\f[]
and ensures the defined router is created in both the IPv4 and IPv6
firewalls.
Any rules within it will also be applied to both, unless they specify
otherwise.
.RE
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B \f[I]name\f[]
This is a name for this router.
You should use short names (10 characters maximum) without spaces or
other symbols.
.RS
.PP
A name should be unique for all FireHOL interface and router
definitions.
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]rule\-params\f[]
The set of rule parameters to further restrict the traffic that is
matched to this router.
.RS
.PP
See firehol\-params(5) for information on the
parameters that can be used.
Some examples:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
router\ mylan\ inface\ ppp+\ outface\ eth0\ src\ not\ ${UNROUTABLE_IPS}

router\ myrouter
\f[]
.fi
.PP
See firehol.conf(5) for an explanation of
${UNROUTABLE_IPS}.
.RE
.SH WORKING WITH ROUTERS
.PP
Routers create stateful iptables(8) rules which match traffic in both
directions.
.PP
To match some client or server traffic, the input/output interface or
source/destination of the request must be specified.
All \f[C]inface\f[]/\f[C]outface\f[] and \f[C]src\f[]/\f[C]dst\f[]
firehol\-params(5) can be given on the router
statement (in which case they will be applied to all subcommands for the
router) or just within the subcommands of the router.
.PP
For example, to define a router which matches requests from any PPP
interface and destined for eth0, and on this allowing HTTP servers (on
eth0) to be accessed by clients (from PPP) and SMTP clients (from eth0)
to access any servers (on PPP):
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
router\ mylan\ inface\ ppp+\ outface\ eth0
\ \ server\ http\ accept
\ \ client\ smtp\ accept
\f[]
.fi
.RS
.PP
\f[B]Note\f[]
.PP
The \f[C]client\f[] subcommand reverses any optional rule parameters
passed to the \f[C]router\f[], in this case the \f[C]inface\f[] and
\f[C]outface\f[].
.RE
.PP
Equivalently, to define a router which matches all forwarded traffic and
within the the router allow HTTP servers on eth0 to be accessible to PPP
and any SMTP servers on PPP to be accessible from eth0:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
router\ mylan
\ \ server\ http\ accept\ inface\ ppp+\ outface\ eth0
\ \ server\ smtp\ accept\ inface\ eth0\ outface\ ppp
\f[]
.fi
.RS
.PP
\f[B]Note\f[]
.PP
In this instance two \f[C]server\f[] subcommands are used since there
are no parameters on the \f[C]router\f[] to reverse.
Avoid the use of the \f[C]client\f[] subcommand in routers unless the
inputs and outputs are defined as part of the \f[C]router\f[].
.RE
.PP
Any number of routers can be defined and the traffic they match can
overlap.
Since the default policy is RETURN, any traffic that is not matched by
any rules in one will proceed to the next, in order, until none are
left.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol(1) \- FireHOL program
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol.conf(5) \- FireHOL configuration
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-params(5) \- optional rule parameters
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-modifiers(5) \- ipv4/ipv6 selection
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-interface(5) \- interface definition
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-iptables(5) \- iptables helper
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-masquerade(5) \- masquerade helper
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Website (http://firehol.org/)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online PDF Manual (http://firehol.org/firehol-manual.pdf)
.IP \[bu] 2
FireHOL Online Documentation (http://firehol.org/documentation/)
.SS Router Subcommands
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-policy(5) \- policy command
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-protection(5) \- protection command
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-server(5) \- server, route commands
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-client(5) \- client command
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-group(5) \- group command
.IP \[bu] 2
firehol\-tcpmss(5) \- tcpmss helper
.SH AUTHORS
FireHOL Team.
